
# File format reference
<a href="https://www.cog-genomics.org/plink/1.9/formats" target="_blank"> https://www.cog-genomics.org/plink/1.9/formats </a>

## .map
**(PLINK text fileset variant information file)**

Variant information file accompanying a .ped text pedigree + genotype table. Also generated by "--recode rlist".

A text file with no header file, and one line per variant with the following 3-4 fields:

1. Chromosome code. PLINK 1.9 also permits contig names here, but most older programs do not.
1. Variant identifier
1. Position in morgans or centimorgans (optional; also safe to use dummy value of '0')
1. Base-pair coordinate

## .ped
**(PLINK/MERLIN/Haploview text pedigree + genotype table)**

Original standard text format for sample pedigree information and genotype calls. Normally must be accompanied by a .map file; Haploview requires an accompanying .info file instead.

Contains no header line, and one line per sample with 2V+6 fields where V is the number of variants. The first six fields are the same as those in a .fam file. The seventh and eighth fields are allele calls for the first variant in the .map file ('0' = no call); the 9th and 10th are allele calls for the second variant; and so on.

A text file with a header line, and then one line per variant with the following 4-7 fields:

1. CHR	Chromosome code
1. SNP	Variant identifier
1. BETA	Regression slope for real data. Only present with "--qfam emp-se".
1. EMP_BETA	Sample mean of permutation regression slopes. Only present with "--qfam emp-se".
1. EMP_SE	Sample stdev of permutation regression slopes. Only present with "--qfam emp-se".
1. EMP1	Empirical p-value (pointwise), or lower-p-value permutation count
1. NP	Number of permutations performed for this variant

```
plink.bed      ( binary file, genotype information )
plink.fam      ( first six columns of mydata.ped ) 
plink.bim      ( extended MAP file: two extra cols = allele names)
```

## .bed
**(PLINK binary biallelic genotype table)**

Primary representation of genotype calls at biallelic variants. Must be accompanied by .bim and .fam files.


## .bim 
**= # of variant (SNP) (PLINK extended MAP file)**

Extended variant information file accompanying a .bed binary genotype table.

A text file with no header line, and one line per variant with the following six fields:

1. Chromosome code (either an integer, or 'X'/'Y'/'XY'/'MT'; '0' indicates unknown) or name
1. Variant identifier
1. Position in morgans or centimorgans (safe to use dummy value of '0')
1. Base-pair coordinate (1-based; limited to 231-2)
1. Allele 1 (corresponding to clear bits in .bed; usually minor)
1. Allele 2 (corresponding to set bits in .bed; usually major)

## .fam 
**= # of sample (PLINK sample information file)**

Sample information file accompanying a .bed binary genotype table. 

A text file with no header line, and one line per sample with the following six fields:

1. Family ID ('FID')
1. Within-family ID ('IID'; cannot be '0')
1. Within-family ID of father ('0' if father isn't in dataset)
1. Within-family ID of mother ('0' if mother isn't in dataset)
1. Sex code ('1' = male, '2' = female, '0' = unknown)
1. Phenotype value ('1' = control, '2' = case, '-9'/'0'/non-numeric = missing data if case/control)
